In our experience as educators
we have observed that
learners often make the assumption
that the format of the data
is the same as the logical model of the
data in the way that you operate on it.
The goal of this very
short lecture is to ensure
that we can clearly
distinguish between the two.
So, after watching this video you will be
able to explain the difference between
format, which is a serialized
representation of the data, as opposed to
data model which we have discussed
at length in the previous months.
Perhaps the simplest example of a data
format is a csv file, so here is
a snippet of a csv file from the global
terrorism database we discussed earlier.
We know that CSV or
common separative values means
that the term between two commas
is the value of an attribute.
But what is this value?
The common notion is that it's
a content of a single relation
where each line is a record
that's a tuple and
the iod value in the CSV corresponds
to the iod attribute as shown here.
Now that might very well be true but
let's look at a different example.
Let's say this snippet
here is my CSV file.
There is no difference between
the previous file and this one.
However, here is how I
like to see the data.
As you can see this is a graph,
and the data model is the same
although the format is still CSV.